<!-- vim: syntax=markdown -->

# Advent of Code 2025-11 %>

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.4"},
  {:kino_vega_lite, "~> 0.1.1"},
  {:nx, github: "elixir-nx/nx", sparse: "nx"},
  {:advent_of_code, path: "Code/mine/advent_of_code/elixir"}
])

alias AdventOfCode.Y2025.Day11, as: Day
```

##  Day 11: Reactor

Problem Link: https://adventofcode.com/2025/day/11

[Previous Day](day_10.livemd)
[Next Day](day_12.livemd)

## Input Data

```elixir
input = Kino.Input.textarea("Please paste your input file:")
```

<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir
lines =
  input
  |> Kino.Input.read()
  |> String.split("\n", trim: true)
```

## Part 1

You hear some loud beeping coming from a hatch in the floor of the
factory, so you decide to check it out. Inside, you find several large
electrical conduits and a ladder.

Climbing down the ladder, you discover the source of the
<span title="The beeping is unrelated to the issue with the server rack. The reactor is just hungry.">beeping</span>:
a large, toroidal reactor which powers the factory above. Some Elves
here are hurriedly running between the reactor and a nearby server rack,
apparently trying to fix something.

One of the Elves notices you and rushes over. "It's a good thing you're
here! We just installed a new *server rack*, but we aren't having any
luck getting the reactor to communicate with it!" You glance around the
room and see a tangle of cables and devices running from the server rack
to the reactor. She rushes off, returning a moment later with a list of
the devices and their outputs (your puzzle input).

For example:

    aaa: you hhh
    you: bbb ccc
    bbb: ddd eee
    ccc: ddd eee fff
    ddd: ggg
    eee: out
    fff: out
    ggg: out
    hhh: ccc fff iii
    iii: out

Each line gives the name of a device followed by a list of the devices
to which its outputs are attached. So, `bbb: ddd eee` means that device
`bbb` has two outputs, one leading to device `ddd` and the other leading
to device `eee`.

The Elves are pretty sure that the issue isn't due to any specific
device, but rather that the issue is triggered by data following some
specific *path* through the devices. Data only ever flows from a device
through its outputs; it can't flow backwards.

After dividing up the work, the Elves would like you to focus on the
devices starting with the one next to you (an Elf hastily attaches a
label which just says *`you`*) and ending with the main output to the
reactor (which is the device with the label *`out`*).

To help the Elves figure out which path is causing the issue, they need
you to find *every* path from `you` to `out`.

In this example, these are all of the paths from `you` to `out`:

- Data could take the connection from `you` to `bbb`, then from `bbb` to
  `ddd`, then from `ddd` to `ggg`, then from `ggg` to `out`.
- Data could take the connection to `bbb`, then to `eee`, then to `out`.
- Data could go to `ccc`, then `ddd`, then `ggg`, then `out`.
- Data could go to `ccc`, then `eee`, then `out`.
- Data could go to `ccc`, then `fff`, then `out`.

In total, there are *`5`* different paths leading from `you` to `out`.

*How many different paths lead from `you` to `out`?*


<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir

```

## Part 2

PROBLEM_TEXT_PART2

<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir

```
