<!-- vim: syntax=markdown -->

# Advent of Code 2024-04

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.4"},
  {:kino_vega_lite, "~> 0.1.1"},
  {:nx, github: "elixir-nx/nx", sparse: "nx"},
  {:advent_of_code, path: "Code/mine/advent_of_code/elixir"}
])

alias AdventOfCode.Y2024.Day04, as: Day
```

##  Day 4: Ceres Search

Problem Link: https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/4

[Previous Day](day_03.livemd)
[Next Day](day_05.livemd)

## Input Data

```elixir
input = Kino.Input.textarea("Please paste your input file:")
```

<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir
lines =
  input
  |> Kino.Input.read()
  |> String.split("\n", trim: true)
```

## Part 1

"Looks like the Chief's not here. Next!" One of The Historians pulls out
a device and pushes the only button on it. After a brief flash, you
recognize the interior of the [Ceres monitoring station](/2019/day/10)!

As the search for the Chief continues, a small Elf who lives on the
station tugs on your shirt; she'd like to know if you could help her
with her *word search* (your puzzle input). She only has to find one
word: `XMAS`.

This word search allows words to be horizontal, vertical, diagonal,
written backwards, or even overlapping other words. It's a little
unusual, though, as you don't merely need to find one instance of
`XMAS` - you need to find *all of them*. Here are a few ways `XMAS`
might appear, where irrelevant characters have been replaced with `.`:

    ..X...
    .SAMX.
    .A..A.
    XMAS.S
    .X....

The actual word search will be full of letters instead. For example:

    MMMSXXMASM
    MSAMXMSMSA
    AMXSXMAAMM
    MSAMASMSMX
    XMASAMXAMM
    XXAMMXXAMA
    SMSMSASXSS
    SAXAMASAAA
    MAMMMXMMMM
    MXMXAXMASX

In this word search, `XMAS` occurs a total of *`18`* times; here's the
same word search again, but where letters not involved in any `XMAS`
have been replaced with `.`:

    ....XXMAS.
    .SAMXMS...
    ...S..A...
    ..A.A.MS.X
    XMASAMX.MM
    X.....XA.A
    S.S.S.S.SS
    .A.A.A.A.A
    ..M.M.M.MM
    .X.X.XMASX

Take a look at the little Elf's word search. *How many times does `XMAS`
appear?*


<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir

```

## Part 2

<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir

```
