<!-- vim: syntax=markdown -->

# Advent of Code 2022-08

```elixir
Mix.install([
  {:kino, "~> 0.7.0"},
  {:vega_lite, "~> 0.1.4"},
  {:kino_vega_lite, "~> 0.1.1"},
  {:nx, github: "elixir-nx/nx", sparse: "nx"}
])
```

##  Day 8: Treetop Tree House

Problem Link: https://adventofcode.com/2022/day/8

[Previous Day](day_07.livemd)
[Next Day](day_09.livemd)

## Input Data

```elixir
input = Kino.Input.textarea("Please paste your input file:")
```

<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir
lines =
  input
  |> Kino.Input.read()
  |> String.split("\n", trim: true)
```

## Part 1

The expedition comes across a peculiar patch of tall trees all planted
carefully in a grid. The Elves explain that a previous expedition
planted these trees as a reforestation effort. Now, they're curious if
this would be a good location for a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_house" target="_blank">tree
house</a>.

First, determine whether there is enough tree cover here to keep a tree
house *hidden*. To do this, you need to count the number of trees that
are *visible from outside the grid* when looking directly along a row or
column.

The Elves have already launched a
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadcopter"
target="_blank">quadcopter</a> to generate a map with the height of each
tree (<span
title="The Elves have already launched a quadcopter (your puzzle input).">your
puzzle input</span>). For example:

    30373
    25512
    65332
    33549
    35390

Each tree is represented as a single digit whose value is its height,
where `0` is the shortest and `9` is the tallest.

A tree is *visible* if all of the other trees between it and an edge of
the grid are *shorter* than it. Only consider trees in the same row or
column; that is, only look up, down, left, or right from any given tree.

All of the trees around the edge of the grid are *visible* - since they
are already on the edge, there are no trees to block the view. In this
example, that only leaves the *interior nine trees* to consider:

- The top-left `5` is *visible* from the left and top. (It isn't visible
  from the right or bottom since other trees of height `5` are in the
  way.)
- The top-middle `5` is *visible* from the top and right.
- The top-right `1` is not visible from any direction; for it to be
  visible, there would need to only be trees of height *0* between it
  and an edge.
- The left-middle `5` is *visible*, but only from the right.
- The center `3` is not visible from any direction; for it to be
  visible, there would need to be only trees of at most height `2`
  between it and an edge.
- The right-middle `3` is *visible* from the right.
- In the bottom row, the middle `5` is *visible*, but the `3` and `4`
  are not.

With 16 trees visible on the edge and another 5 visible in the interior,
a total of *`21`* trees are visible in this arrangement.

Consider your map; *how many trees are visible from outside the grid?*


<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir

```

## Part 2

<!-- livebook:{"reevaluate_automatically":true} -->

```elixir

```
